Changelog for 2.0 release. (#2744)
tock/tock: CHANGELOG.md

New in 2.0
==========

* Many core kernel APIs have been redesigned and rewritten.
  
  * There are two new userspace system calls: `AllowReadOnly` and
  `Exit`. The old `Allow` system call has been renamed to `AllowReadWrite`.

>   `AllowReadyOnly` provides a mechanism for userspace to share a 

Reviewer: `AllowReadyOnly` -> `AllowReadOnly`

  read-only buffer (e.g., constant data stored in flash) to the kernel.
  `Exit` allows a process to complete execution and request that the
  kernel either terminate or restart it.
  
  * The system call ABI has been rewritten. System calls can now return
  up to 4 registers of values to userspace on return. The ABI defines
  the format and structure of the allowed return types. TRD104 documents
  the new ABI.
  
  * The calling semantics and requirements for system calls is more
  clearly defined, especially with respect to calls to the Allow
  system calls and how buffers are managed. Furthermore, the lifetime
  of upcalls passed to the kernel with the `subscribe` system call
  has been defined. To enforce that the kernel doesn't maintain
  references to upcalls that it shouldn't (so userspace can reclaim any

>   resources they require), upcalls are now managed by the kernel.

Reviewer: "upcalls are now managed by the kernel" -> "upcalls are now managed by the core kernel"

	`Chip` for chip-specific operations and `KernelResources` for kernel
	operations.
	
	* `Driver` is now `SyscallDriver`.
	
* The kernel namespace has been reorganized.

  * https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/2659 reorganizes the kernel namespace.
  The actual abstractions and types exported were not changed, but their places
  in the namespace were.
  
  * Almost everything is now exported as `kernel::module::Type` rather than `kernel::Type`.
  * `/common` is split up into `/utilities` and `/collections`
	
* There is increased chip and board support.

  * RISC-V support has been extended to support progress and revisions
  to support microcontroller-type systems, including support for EPMP
  memory protection.
  
  * There is support for ARM CortexM7.

  * Board support adds:
    
	* Nano RP2040 Connect
	
	* Clue nRF52840
	
	* BBC Micro:bit v2
	
	* WeAct F401CCU6 Core Board
	
	* i.MX RT 1052 Evaluation Kit
	
	* Teensy 4.0
	
	* Pico Explorer Base
	
	* Rapsberry Pi Pico
	
	* LiteX on Digilent Arty A-7
	
	* Verilated LiteX simulation
	
	* ESP32-C3-DevKitM-1
	

* Major HIL changes
  
  * All HILs have changed significantly, to be in line with the new
  types within the kernel.
  

>   * `ReturnCode` has been deprecated within the kernel. HILs that used to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `ReturnCode` has been removed from the kernel. HILs that used to
```

	
	* `Callback` is now `Upcall` (to distinguish upcalls from the kernel to
	userspace from general softare callbacks). `Upcall`s are now stored in
        a special block of memory in grant regions and are managed by the
        kernel rather than drivers. This allows the kernel to enforce their
        swapping semantics. #2639
	
	* `Platform` is now `SyscallDriverLookup` and `Chip` is now split into
	`Chip` for chip-specific operations and `KernelResources` for kernel
	operations.
	
	* `Driver` is now `SyscallDriver`.
	
* The kernel namespace has been reorganized.

  * https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/2659 reorganizes the kernel namespace.
  The actual abstractions and types exported were not changed, but their places
  in the namespace were.
  
  * Almost everything is now exported as `kernel::module::Type` rather than `kernel::Type`.
  * `/common` is split up into `/utilities` and `/collections`
	
* There is increased chip and board support.

  * RISC-V support has been extended to support progress and revisions
  to support microcontroller-type systems, including support for EPMP
  memory protection.
  

>   * There is support for ARM CortexM7.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * There is support for ARM CortexM0+ and CortexM7.
```

	
	* WeAct F401CCU6 Core Board
	
	* i.MX RT 1052 Evaluation Kit
	
	* Teensy 4.0
	
	* Pico Explorer Base
	
	* Rapsberry Pi Pico
	
	* LiteX on Digilent Arty A-7
	
	* Verilated LiteX simulation
	
	* ESP32-C3-DevKitM-1
	

* Major HIL changes
  
  * All HILs have changed significantly, to be in line with the new
  types within the kernel.
  
  * `ReturnCode` has been removed from the kernel. HILs that used to
  return `ReturnCode` now return `Result<(), ErrorCode>`, so that `Ok`
  indicates a success result. #2508
  
  * There is a draft of a TRD describing guidelines for HIL design,
  which enumerates 13 principles HIL traits should follow.
  
  * The SPI, I2C, and CRC HILs have changed in how they handle buffers.
  SPI and I2C now correctly return buffers on error cases, and CRC now
  relies on `LeasableBuffer` to compute a CRC over a large block of
  memory.
  
  * Digest has been extended to support multiple digest algorithms:
  in addition to HMAC SHA256 it now supports SHA224, SHA256, SHA384, SHA512,
  HMAC SHA384 and HMAC SHA512.

  * A key/value store HIL has been added.
  
  * An 8080 bus HIL (for LCDs) has been added.
  
  * A text screen HIL has been added.

>   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * A screen HIL has been added
  
  * A touch HIL has been added
```

  * The Time HIL has been updated to better support `dyn` references
  when needed, by adding a `ConvertTicks` trait. This change is 
  documented in TRD 105 (which, when finalized, obsoletes 101).

  * Blanket implementations for UART trait groups have been added.
  Now, if a structure implements both `uart::Transmit` and 
  `uart::Receive`, it will automatically implement `uart::UartData`.
  
* In-kernel virtualizers for the following HILs have been added: AES, RNG, SHA
  
* The kernel now checks whether loaded processes are compiled for the
running kernel version. Because 2.0 changes the user/kernel ABI, processes
compiled for Tock 1.x will not run correctly on a Tock 2.x kernel and
vice versa. If the kernel detects that a process is compiled for the

> wrong kernel version it skips the process and does not load it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
wrong kernel version it stops loading processes.
```

* There have been changes to kernel internals and the build system
to reduce code size. For example, kernel code that was highly 
replicated in monomorphized functions has been factored out (#2648).

* All system call driver capsules that do not support use by 
multiple processes now use grant regions to store state and
explicitly forbid access from multiple processes (e.g., #2518).. 

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

  * The process console has been improved

```
